
# Importance of Tawḥīd and its virtues

## Tawḥīd is the Greatest Pillar of Islam.

It is the greatest foundation of Islam, and one cannot enter into Islam without
bearing witness to the oneness of Allāh and acknowledging His exclusive right to be
worshipped, while denying any worship to others besides Him.

Prophet Muhammad \BPBUH said, “Islam is built upon five (pillars):

- The testimony that there is no deity worthy of worship but Allāh, and Muhammad is the messenger of Allāh.
- Establishing prayer.
- Giving zakat (charity).
- Fasting in Ramadan.
- Performing the pilgrimage (Hajj) to the  house (Ka’bah).” [Agreed upon]

## Tawḥīd is the Most Important Duty and the First Obligation

It takes precedence over all actions and is the foremost of all significant
duties because of its high status and paramount importance. It is the first
thing one is called to. The Prophet \BPBUH said to Muʿādh when he sent him to
Yemen, “You are going to a people of the Scripture, so let the first thing you
call them to be the testimony that there is no deity worthy of worship but
Allāh.” In another narration, he said: “Call them to the oneness of Allāh.”
[Agreed upon]

## Worship is Not Accepted Except with Tawḥīd

It is a condition for its validity and the foundation of its acceptance. Worship
is not called worship unless it is accompanied by Tawḥīd, just as prayer is not
called prayer unless it is accompanied by purity (ablution). If shirk
(associating partners with Allāh) enters into worship, it corrupts it -- just
like impurity nullifies purification. Worship without Tawḥīd becomes an act of
shirk that invalidates deeds, renders them worthless, and condemns the person to
eternal punishment in Hell.

## Tawḥīd is the Key to Security and Guidance in This Life and the Hereafter

The evidence for it is in the words of Allāh:

<!-- TODO: ADD_ARABIC_AYAH -->

“Those who believe and do not mix their faith with wrongdoing—for them there is
security, and they are rightly guided.” (Surah al-Anʿām Q6:82)

The “wrongdoing” mentioned here refers to shirk, as clarified by the Prophet \BPBUH.

Ibn Kathīr (may Allāh have mercy on him) explained, “Those who worship Allāh
alone with sincerity and do not associate anything with Him -- they are the ones
who will have security on the Day of Judgment and guidance in both this life and
the Hereafter.”

Whoever perfects Tawḥīd will attain complete security and guidance and will
enter Paradise without suffering punishment.

Shirk is the gravest injustice, while Tawḥīd is the highest form of justice.

## Tawḥīd is the Path to Paradise and Salvation from Hell

The Prophet \BPBUH said, “Whoever testifies that there is no deity worthy of
worshipped but Allāh alone, with no partner, that Muhammad is His servant and
messenger, that Jesus is the servant of Allāh and His messenger, and His word
that He bestowed upon Mary, and a spirit from Him, and that Paradise is real and
Hell is real—Allāh will admit him into Paradise regardless of his deeds.”
[Agreed upon]

He \BPBUH also said: “Indeed, Allāh has forbidden Hell for anyone who says,
‘There is no deity worthy of being worshipped but Allāh,’ sincerely seeking the
pleasure of Allāh.”

## Tawḥīd is Salvation from the Hardships of This World and the Hereafter

Ibn al-Qayyim (may Allāh have mercy on him) said, “Tawḥīd is the refuge of both
its enemies and its allies.”

For its enemies: Tawḥīd saves them from the hardships and difficulties of this
world, as Allāh says,

<!-- TODO: ADD_ARABIC_AYAH -->

“When they embark on a ship, they call upon Allāh, sincere in their faith in Him
alone. But when He delivers them safely to land, they associate others with
Him.” (Surah al-ʿAnkabūt Q29:65)

For its allies: Tawḥīd saves them from the hardships of both this world and the
Hereafter. This is the way of Allāh with His servants—there is nothing more
powerful in repelling the trials of this world than Tawḥīd.

That is why the supplication of distress is based on Tawḥīd, just as the prayer
of Prophet Yunus (peace be upon him) was—no one ever called upon Allāh with it
while in distress except that Allāh relieved their hardship through Tawḥīd.

Thus, nothing throws people into severe hardship more than *shirk* (associating
partners with Allāh), and nothing rescues them from it except Tawḥīd. It is the
ultimate refuge, shelter, and protection for all of creation.

## Tawḥīd is the wisdom behind the Creation of Humans and Jinn

Allāh says: “I did not create jinn and humans except to worship Me.” (Surah
Adh-Dhariyat: 56)

Meaning: to establish Tawḥīd, single out Allāh in all aspects of worship 

The Messengers were sent, the Scriptures were revealed, Laws were established,
and creation itself was brought into existence for the sole purpose of
worshipping Allāh alone, without associating anything with Him.
