
# Nullifiers of Islam (Nawāqid al-Islām)

What is meant by them: Things that invalidate and corrupt a person’s Islam. They
are many, but the most dangerous and common are ten:

1. Associating partners with Allah in worship (Shirk): For example, sacrificing
for other than Allah, such as one who slaughters for jinn or for a grave.
Evidence: “Indeed, Allah does not forgive association with Him, but He forgives
what is less than that for whom He wills.” [An-Nisāʾ: 116]

2. Whoever places intermediaries between himself and Allah — calling upon them,
asking them for intercession, and relying on them — has committed disbelief
according to scholarly consensus.

3. Whoever does not consider the polytheists as disbelievers, or doubts their
disbelief, or considers their path (religion) to be correct, has disbelieved.

4. Whoever believes that guidance other than the Prophet’s is more perfect than
his guidance, or that any rule is better than his rule — such as those who
prefer laws of false gods over his — is a disbeliever.

5. Whoever hates anything from what the Messenger has brought — even if they act
upon it — is a disbeliever.

6. Whoever mocks anything from the religion of the Messenger — whether it is the
reward, the punishment, or anything from the religion — has committed disbelief.
Evidence: “Say: Was it Allah, His verses, and His Messenger that you were
mocking? Make no excuse; you have disbelieved after your belief.” [At-Tawbah:
65--66]

7. Practicing magic: Including acts like ṣarf (turning someone’s love away from
another) and ʿaṭf (causing love). Whoever does it or is pleased with it has
disbelieved. Evidence: “But they [the two angels] do not teach anyone unless
they say: ‘We are only a trial, so do not disbelieve.’” [Al-Baqarah: 102]

8. Supporting and aiding the polytheists against the Muslims: Evidence: “And
whoever among you allies with them — then indeed, he is [one] of them. Indeed,
Allah does not guide the wrongdoing people.” [Al-Mā’idah: 51]

9. Whoever believes that some people are allowed to abandon the law of Muhammad
(peace be upon him) is a disbeliever. Evidence: “And whoever seeks a religion
other than Islam, it will never be accepted of him, and in the Hereafter he will
be among the losers.” [Āl-ʿImrān: 85]

10. Turning away from the religion of Allah — neither learning it nor acting
upon it: Evidence: “And who is more unjust than one who is reminded of the
verses of his Lord but turns away from them? Indeed, We will take retribution
from the criminals.” [As-Sajdah: 22]

⸻

Important Notes:

- First: There is no difference in the ruling of these nullifiers between
someone who does them jokingly, seriously, or out of fear — except for the one
who is coerced (al-mukrah).

- Second: These nullifiers are among the most dangerous and most commonly
committed, so a Muslim must be cautious of them and fear falling into them.
