
# Foreword {.unnumbered}

All praises or for Allah the Lord of the worlds, may peace and blessings
be upon our prophet Mohammed, his family and his companions all
together.

I have come across the book namely "Altawheed Almuyassar", written by
our brother Abdullah Bin Ahmed Alhuwayl, and it gave me immense pleasure
to see how this great topic (of tawheed) was made easy and simple to
understand, for verily making things easy for the learner is from the
objectives of the religion. That is why Allah says : "And We have indeed
made the Qur\'an easy to understand and remember; then is there any that
will remember" Surah Qamar verse 22. The prophet (ﷺ) in one authentic
hadith said as reported by Abu Hurairah : "You have been sent to make
things easy (for the people), you have not been sent to make things
difficult for them." The prophet (ﷺ) also said as reported by Jaabir in
sahih muslim : "Allah did not send me to be harsh or cause harm, but He
has sent me to teach and make things easy".

Thus the foundation of this Blessed legislation (shariah) is based on
making things easy in knowledge, in action and in general every thing.
And it is for people all together.

And what our brother Abdullah Bin Ahmed Alhuwayl has come with is a
really good deed over which he should be thanked. Especially what he has
done in terms of facilitating and bringing together the foundation of
all knowledge which is the knowledge of Tauheed, through which a slave
learns about the rights of Allah, with which amendment of this world and
the next is achieved.

I ask Allah to grant us and him ability to do good and steadfastness in
what we say and do, and ask Him to make this blessed effort beneficial.

::: {custom-style="Left-ragged"}
Khalid Bin Abdullah Almuslih  
10/5/1424 Hijri
:::
